---
title: "Discussion"
bg: blue
color: white
fa-icon: archive
---
From the analysis,it was found out that climatic factor do influence the dryness or the wetness of the potholes. But there is absolutely no linear relationship between them. The assessment of each of the factors using Linear regression didn't result into a good model, precipitation did show some promising features. After the pothole water depth were grouped into dry and wet conditions,it became evident  that higher precipitation is a major driver of the pothole wetness while all other factors (temperature, evaporation and radiation ) are all drivers of dryness of the pothole, however, this is not distinctive enough for the case of the dry conditions.

From the result it could be said, the water depth is rather increasing over the years, although, there were some outliers but this would have limited influence on the output. From observation, the precipitation didn't shoot higher from 2016 to 2020, it has some level of seasonality but 2020 precipitation showed lower rate compared to 2019, and 2018. These didn't directly influence pothole water depth, because the highest increase from  estimation was recorded in the pothole water depth for 2020.

Using this climatic factors to predict dryness or wetness of potholes yielded a great output that could be subject to further analysis in future work. The confusion matrix showed some level of accuracy in prediction for dry potholes but had errors in wet conditions. These data were only within a timeframe but that was not what influenced the output, a further exploration pther month's potholes water depth would still significantly lead to classification error making accuracy tilt towards the dry condition only.

Future Work: The best way to get a more accurate model would be having more data for several other years. Another insight would be separating between snow and rainfall, both were classified as precipitation because if there is rainfall, it would increase pothole water depth instantaneous but snow may take some more time to melt and in the process still have some rainfall join the melted snow. Antecedent rainfall would also be something great to incorporate into the
analysis, checking out what it was like and  monitoring days ahead, then aggregating such output to develop a more robust  model.

## Assignment for Students

You can download the assignment from the [Github_page](https://github.com/OSO3670/DryPotholeProject/blob/gh-pages/Assignment%20for%20students.ipynb)
